first attempt at refactoring README (#10742)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/contributing/release-process.md

<!-- vale off -->

> # Release Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Release Process

The following section discusses the basics of creating a new documentation release based on an upcoming Palette release. Refer to our [Confluence Release Checklist](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1830420481/Release+Checklist) for additional details.
```

## Release

To create a new release, use the following steps:

1. Create a release branch. Use the following naming pattern `docs-rel-X-X`

> 2. Create a commit using the following commit message `feat: updating documentation for `docs-rel-X-X`. Replace x-x with

Reviewer: We don't want them to always use `feat`. The semantic version depends on the Palette release. For patch increments, use `fix`; for minor increments, use `feat`; for major increments, `BREAKING CHANGE`.

   the upcoming release number.
3. Push up the commit and create a new pull request (PR).

> 4. Merge PRs related to the upcoming release into the `docs-rel-X-X` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Merge PRs related to the upcoming release into the `docs-rel-X-X` branch. Apart from individual Jira tickets capturing product changes, use [release scripts](#palette-release#documentation) to populate values specific to each release. 
```

> 5. Merge the release branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Merge the release branch. 

- If the branch `version-X-X` that corresponds to the current major-minor version of Palette already exists, add the labels auto-backport and backport-version-X-X, where version-X-X corresponds to the current major-minor version of Palette.

- If no `version-X-X` branch that corresponds to the current major-minor of Palette exists, create a new `version-X-X` branch from the `master` used for versioning the documentation, and push the new version branch to the remote repository.

```

6. Create a new branch from the `master` branch. Use the following naming pattern `version-X-X`. This brach is used for
   versioning the documentation.

> 7. Push the new version branch to the remote repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 8. Trigger a new build so that the new version is published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Trigger a new release to publish the release.
```

The semantic-release logic and the GitHub Actions in the [release.yaml](../../.github/workflows/release.yaml) will
ensure the new release tag is created.

> [!WARNING]
>

> > Do not use `feat`,`perf`, `fix`, or other semantic-release key words that trigger a version change. Use the commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Unless merging a release branch, do not use `feat`,`perf`, `fix`, or other semantic-release key words that trigger a version change. Use the commit
```

> message prefix `docs: yourMessageHere` for regular documentation commits.

## Unreleased Version Banner

The `UNRELEASED_VERSION_BANNER` environment variable is used to determine if the unreleased version banner should be

> displayed. The default value is `false`. If you want to display the unreleased version banner, set the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
displayed (for example, on [https://docs-latest.spectrocloud.com/release-notes/](https://docs-latest.spectrocloud.com/release-notes/). The default value is `false`. If you want to display the unreleased version banner, set the
```

`UNRELEASED_VERSION_BANNER` environment variable to `true`.

```shell
export UNRELEASED_VERSION_BANNER=true
```

## Palette Release Documentation

We have a series of scripts that automatically make updates to the documentation with a new Palette release. These
scripts rely on environment variables for their information.

The scripts update the following files.

- [Advanced CLI Configuration](../docs-content/registries-and-packs/advanced-configuration.md)
- [Downloads](../docs-content/downloads/cli-tools.md)
- [Install Palette CLI](../docs-content/automation/palette-cli/install-palette-cli.md)
- [`_palette-vmware-kubernetes-versions.mdx`](../../_partials/self-hosted/_palette-vmware-kubernetes-versions.mdx)
- [`_palette-vmware-kubernetes-versions.mdx`](../../_partials/vertex/_palette-vmware-kubernetes-versions.mdx)
- [`_palette-kubernetes-versions.mdx`](../../_partials/_palette-kubernetes-versions.mdx)
- [Private Cloud Gateway](../docs-content/clusters/pcg/pcg.md)
- [Release Notes](../docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md)
- [Spectro Cloud CLI Tool](../docs-content/registries-and-packs/spectro-cli-reference.md)

### Environment Variables

> The following table provides an overview of all the environment variables and which pages they are used on. For ease of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table provides an overview of all the environment variables and which pages they are used on. These variables are set in your local `.env` file and used for automatically populating certain pages with the necessary values. For ease of
```

> recognition, all environment variables used by these scripts are named using the `RELEASE_` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recognition, all environment variables used by these scripts are named using the `RELEASE_` prefix. For more information on where to find these values, refer to the [Confluence Release Checklist](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1830420481/Release+Checklist) page. 
```
